# `docker2singularity`

Are you developing Docker images and you would like to run them on an HPC cluster supporting [Singularity](http://singularity.lbl.gov)? Are you working on Mac or Windows with no easy access to a Linux machine? `docker2singularity` is the simplest way to generate Singularity images. Note that the upcoming Singularity (2.3) release supports import from Docker without sudo, natively, and this is the recommended approach. More information will be provided in the upcoming documentation for 2.3.

## Requirements

 - Docker (native Linux or Docker for Mac or Docker for Windows) - to create the Singularity image.
 - Singularity >= 2.1 - to run the Singularity image (**versions 2.0 and older are not supported!**).

## Usage

No need to download anything from this repository! Simply type:

```
docker run \
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-v D:\host\path\where\to\output\singularity\image:/output \
--privileged -t --rm \
singularityware/docker2singularity \
ubuntu:14.04
```

Replace `D:\host\path\where\to\output\singularity\image` with a path on the host filesystem where your Singularity image will be created. Replace `ubuntu:14.04` with the docker image name you wish to convert (it will be pulled from Docker Hub if it does not exist on your host system).

`docker2singularity` uses the Docker daemon located on the host system. It will access the Docker image cache from the host system avoiding having to redownload images that are already present locally.

### Contributed Examples
The following are a list of brief examples and tutorials generated by the Singularity community for using **docker2singularity**. If you have an example of your own, please [let us know](https://www.github.com/singularityware/docker2singularity/issues)!

 - [docker2singularity-demo](https://github.com/stevekm/docker2singularity-demo): an example of using docker2singularity on MacOS using Vagrant, complete with notes and a nice Makefile


## Tips for making Docker images compatible with Singularity

 - Define all environmental variables using the `ENV` instruction set. Do not rely on `.bashrc`, `.profile`, etc.
 - Define an `ENTRYPOINT` instruction set pointing to the command line interface to your pipeline
 - Do not define `CMD` - rely only on `ENTRYPOINT`
 - You can interactively test the software inside the container by overriding the `ENTRYPOINT`
   `docker run -i -t --entrypoint /bin/bash bids/example`
 - Do not rely on being able to write anywhere other than the home folder and `/scratch`. Make sure your container runs with the `--read-only --tmpfs /run --tmpfs /tmp` parameters (this emulates the read-only behavior of Singularity)
 - Don’t rely on having elevated user permissions
 - Don’t use the USER instruction set

## FAQ
### "client is newer than server" error
If you are getting the following error:
`docker: Error response from daemon: client is newer than server`

You need to use the `docker info` command to check your docker version and use it to grab the correct corresponding version of `docker2singularity`. For example:

     docker run \        
     -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
     -v D:\host\path\where\to\output\singularity\image:/output \
     --privileged -t --rm \
     singularityware/docker2singularity:1.11 \            
     ubuntu:14.04

Currently only the 1.10, 1.11, 1.12, and 1.13  versions are supported. If you are using an older version of Docker you will need to upgrade.

### My cluster/HPC requires Singularity images to include specific mount points
If you are getting `WARNING: Non existant bind point (directory) in container: '/shared_fs'` or a similar error when running your Singularity image that means that your Singularity images require custom mount points. To make the error go away you can specify the mount points required by your system when creating the Singularity image:

     docker run \        
     -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
     -v D:\host\path\where\to\output\singularity\image:/output \
     --privileged -t --rm \
     singularityware/docker2singularity \            
     -m "/shared_fs /custom_mountpoint2" \
     ubuntu:14.04
     
     
## Acknowledgements
This work is heavily based on the `docker2singularity` work done by [vsoch](https://github.com/vsoch) and [gmkurtzer](https://github.com/gmkurtzer). Hopefully most of the conversion code will be merged into Singularity in the future making this container even leaner!
